
Structure of the Window 
-----------------------


Master Functions
---------------- 

The top line of the window has two
buttons.

Quit: Quit the program without saving or running.

Help: Bring up a help file.

The second line of the window has functions related to running the
model.

Run Simulations: This checks the input parameters for validity,
    		 displays a confirmation pop-up showing the size of
    		 the images in pixels, and the number of models to be
    		 run, and then asks for the output directory, before
    		 running the models.

Save Parameters: Save the current parameters to a file for future use.

Load Parameters: Load saved parameters.

Check Input: Check for non-valid entries (check for numerical input,
      	     maxima greater than minima, and positive values or
      	     integers where appropriate). Any errors will be
      	     displayed.

Save Results as Text: If checked, in addition to saving in python
     	     	      native pkl format, a portable ascii text file
     	     	      will be saved for each model (details of the
     	     	      file format can be found in the Output Format
     	     	      section below.)

		      On the third line, there are four tabs, for the
		      different types of parameters.

Model Parameters: values dealing with the image size and resolution,
      		  number of photons, etc; the overall parameters that
      		  are independent of the geometry of the disk and
      		  physics of the dust grains.

Dust Parameters: Dust grain model and wavelength of the image.

Disk Parameters: Parameters related to the disk geometry; size,
     		 density, flaring, scale height, inner hole.

Advanced Parameters: Parameters of interest only to the advanced user.



Model Parameters 
------------------


The "Model Parameters" tab include values to do with the size, S/N and
resolution of the output data. The units of resolution are strongly
linked to the data to which you want to compare the models: the
distance to the source, and the pixel scale of the observations.

Number of Photons (1e6 photons): a higher value gives a better S/N,
       	  	       		 but takes longer to run. 1e6 is a
       	  	       		 good starting value, you can go as
       	  	       		 low as 1e5 for quick look images.
       	  	       		 Very low density disks (ie, optically
       	  	       		 thin) will require more photons.

Viewing Angle (degrees): In addition to the ten viewing angles, one
	      		 user specified viewing angle will be
	      		 calculated. This is particularly useful if
	      		 you know the inclination of the disk.

       			 The viewing angles that are calculated by
default are centred at 12.9, 31.4, 41.3, 49.4, 56.5, 63.2, 69.5, 75.5,
81.4 and 87.1 degrees, where 0 degrees is face on and 90 degrees is
edge on.

Distance (pc): Distance to the source. The default value is Taurus
	       (144 pc).

Pixel Sampling: Factor by which you want to scale the pixels in the
      		models, compared to your original data. A value of 2
      		will use pixels twice as wide as the data. Rescaling
      		the pixels can improve the S/N for a given run time,
      		or speed up the model for a given S/N.

Pixel Scale (arcsec): Linear pixel size in the observational data. The
      	    	      default value is that for the PDI mode of
      	    	      HICIAO; change the value appropriate for your
      	    	      data. If you aren’t comparing with data, this
      	    	      value can be set to whatever pixel size you
      	    	      want.

Name of Log File: Name of the file for the log information. This will
     	    	  be a text file, stored in the same directory as the
     	    	  model.

 
Dust Parameters 
----------------


See sprout_manual.pdf for the relevant equations.

Disk Minimum Radius (AU): The radius of the inner hole in the disk. A
     	     	    	  value of 0 gives no inner hole.

Disk Maximum Radius (AU): The radius of the disk.

Stellar Radius: (R*) The radius of the central star. This parameter is
		     only important for determining the values of rhoo
		     and ho in units R*. If rhoo and h are determined
		     at an arbitrary radius in AU, R* is not
		     used. (See "Options for ho" and "Options for rho"
		     below for details)

Grid Values

For each of the grid values, you need to enter a minimum value, a
maximum value, and the number of values. In addition, you can choose a
logarithmic or linear scaling of the parameters; the endpoints will be
included.

The three grid values

beta: The flaring parameter

rhoo (g cm-3): the initial density, measured at a reference point.

ho (R* or AU): the disk scale height, measured at a reference
       	       point. ho is measured in R* if ho is determined at R*,
       	       and AU if h is determined at an arbitrary radius.


Options for ho

	The scale height ho can be determined at R* (the stellar
	surface), a common convention for this type of model, or the
	an arbitrary radius in AU. This can be selected under "Options
	for ho". The default is R*.

Options for rhoo

	There are two additional options for rhoo. You can fix the
	total (dust) disk mask to a constant value (in solar
	masses). The program will scale the value of rhoo in Equation
	2 to satisfy this requirement. This is useful if you know the
	mass of the disk from other observations.

	You can also scale rhoo to a fixed value of the disk’s optical
	depth in a given direction. In other words, at an angle of
	theta from the midplane, the total optical depth of the disk
	will be tau. This is useful for reducing the degeneracy in the
	parameters for a given shape of the disk emission.


	Note that these two options for rhoo will remove the grid
	option for rhoo, as the density will be independently scaled
	in each model.  The actual value of rhoo used in the
	simulation will be stored with the model, used in the model
	file name, and displayed in the viewer.



Disk Parameters 
------------------

These are options for the physical properties of the dust and the
wavelength of the calculations. All the dust models are spherically
symmetric homogenous particles, using silicate and either graphite or
amorphous carbon.

Dust Model: a choice of a variety of pre-computed models taken from
     	    the literature.


	    KMH94, R_V=3.1
            Cotera+01, amorphous
            Cotera+01 x 15, amorphous
            Cotera+01, graphite
            Cotera+01 x 15, graphite

            Cotera+01, amorphous (J98,400C)
            Cotera+01, amorphous (J98,600C)
            Cotera+01, amorphous (J98,800C)
            Cotera+01, amorphous (J98,1000C)
            Cotera+01 x 15, amorphous (J98,400C)
            Cotera+01 x 15, amorphous (J98,600C)
            Cotera+01 x 15, amorphous (J98,800C)
            Cotera+01 x 15, amorphous (J98,1000C)  
  
	    KMH94, R_V=3.1: ISM model taken from Kim et al., (1994)

	    Cotera+01: Grain composition based on circumstellar disk
	    observations (Cotera et al., 2001), with variations in the
	    calculation of optical properties.

	    amorphous - amorphous carbon composition
	    graphite -  graphite composition

	    x 15 - the same composition, but with the size of the
	    grains scaled up by a factor of 15, for more evolved dust.

	    (J98) 400C etc. - The same composition, but the
	    temperature indicates models with different pyrolisis
	    temperatures, calculated in the manner of Jäger et al
	    (1998).

	    Wavelength: Select the wavelength from the drop down menu:
	    the choices are V (0.55 μm), J (1.25 μm), H (1.65 μm) and
	    K (2.12 μm). This is a monochromatic wavelength, not
	    integrated over a filter.


Advanced Parameters 
-------------------

Maximum Number of Scatterings: number of scatterings before a photon
	       	  	       is considered absorbed.

Step size for Photon Path (AU): The grid used for integration in
     	      	     	  	radius in the model. You may need to
     	      	     	  	change this for very small disks (a
     	      	     	  	smaller step size) or very large ones
     	      	     	  	(a larger step size).

Range for Viewing Angle (Degrees): Angle over which the photons are
      	  	  		   averaged for the user specified
      	  	  		   angle.

Image Padding (Percent): amount of empty space around the edges of the
      	      		 model. 0 crops the model to the outer edge of
      	      		 the disk exactly.

kappa_ext: (cm2g-1) The opacity for the dust + gas. This will override
	   	    the value used by the dust model, so use at your
	   	    own risk.


Running the Model 
------------------


Choose your parameters, and click "Run Simulations". The program will
check for valid input, and display the number of models to be run, and
the grid size, and ask for confirmation.

You will then be prompted for the output directory, in which the
results will be stored. The code will over-write previous results if
you choose the directory used for a previous model.

Once the model starts running, a window will pop up with the run-time
status, listing the number of models completed, and an estimate of the
run-time left.

A popup window will alert you when the models are finished. 


Saving and Loading Model Parameters
-----------------------------------

Click "Save Parameters" in the second line of the window to save
the model parameters to a file (you will be prompted for a file
name). They can be loaded again using the ´Load ´Parameters¡ button.
The parameter files are saved in native python pkl format.

Checking the Parameters 
----------------------

Click "Check Input" in the second line of the window.  This will
check the input for positive/integer values, non-numeric values, and
upper limits > lower limits. An error message will be displayed if
there is a problem, a confirmation otherwise. This step will
automatically be run before saving the parameters or running the
model.

Running the Models 
------------------

Click "Run Simulations" The parameters will be checked for validity,
and either confirm or give an error message. Close this window to
proceed.  A popup window will list the pixel size of the output
images, and the number of models to be calculated. If this is okay,
click "Yes".  You will be prompted to choose a directory to store the
output. Creating a new directory is strongly recommended. You cannot
save more than one model in the same directory.  A popup window will
show the number of models to be run, and an estimate of the remaining
run time (after the first model has been run) When the models are
finished running, a popup will appear.


Output 
------


See the manual for a more detailed description.

The output from the program will be contained in the chosen
directory. It consists of a summary .pkl file for the run, and one
file for each combination of ρ, h and β. Each file contains the
information for all eleven viewing angles, and the four polarization
vectors (I, Q, U, V) plus polarized intensity (PI).  If the -Y΄Save
as Text‘ option was chosen, the same data are also contained in text
files (one per model).

and viewing angle, with the name

"run_"+str("%5.3e" % h)+"_"+str("%5.3e" % rho)+"_"+str("%5.3e" % beta)+".pkl"

where h, rho and beta are the values for each model. (%5.3e indicates
exponential notation with three decimal points).

The log file will be saved in the same directory.

Text Files (Optional)


The option "Save as Text" will also create an ascii text file for each
model, for ease of importation into other software. The file name is
the same as above, but with the extension ".dat".

A series of header lines, prefixed by "##" containing a listing of the
model parameters, followed by the data in the format

Angle X Y I Q U V %12.4f %5d %5d %12.4e %12.4e %12.4e %12.4e

where X is the value of the x pixel (0 to npixel-1) and Y is the value
of the y pixel (0 to npixel-1), both in integer format, followed by
the four polarization values in exponential format.

The lines are organized by angle, then by X pixel coordinate, then by
Y pixel coordinate.  There are therefore 11 * nx * ny total lines of
data.
