
More details can be found in the manual. 


Loading and Viewing a Model
--------------------------

Start the Program

	> view_models.py &

Click "Load Simulation".  

Choose the directory which contains the model you want to view.

Choose the Image Mode you want to view from the drop down menu

Use the scroll bars to interactively change the viewing angle, scale
height, initial density and flaring power. The plot will update as you
drag the sliders.

At any point, clicking "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window
will update the plot.

To Compare with Observational Data
----------------------------------

The simulations are calculated to be easily compared to real data. The
observational data must be in FITS format (with a single extension),
should be centred in the image and be at the pixel scale specified in
"Model Parameters" in the "Pixel Scale" entry.  It does not need to be
rotated to a specific orientation; this can be done in the viewer.

To Load the Data

   Click "Load Observations" and select a FITS file containing your data. 
   
   Select the "Show Data Contour" button.
   
   The program assumes that the data are centred in the image: the image
   will be automatically cropped and scaled to match the size of the
   model.
   
   The program assumes that the pixel scale is consistent with the values
   used to generate the models.  The contour levels used will be listed
   for reference in the "Image Options" tab, under "Levels".


To rotate the contours with respect to the image
----------------------------------------------


   You can rotate the data if it is not aligned with the axis of the
   model images. You have two options; interactive rotation and
   entering the angle manually.
   
   To interactively rotate, left click anywhere on the image, and
   without releasing the button drag the pointer as if you were
   rotating around the centre. When you release the mouse, the plot
   will update.  To enter a rotation manually, enter the angle
   (measured counter clockwise) in the entry box (labelled "Contour
   Rotation"), and click the "Plot/Refresh Plot" button at the bottom
   of the window.

To Convolve with a PSF
-----------------------

   The image can be convolved with a user provided PSF, or a
   Gaussian. The user provided PSF must be in FITS format, in the same
   pixel scale as the data and centred in the image, but does not need
   to be flux scaled.
   
   To convolve with a Gaussian PSF
   
       Select "Convolve with PSF"
       
       Choose "Gaussian PSF" and enter the FWHM of the PSF, in units
       of pixels of the original data.
       
       Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.

   To convolve with a user provided PSF

       Select "Convolve with PSF" 
       
       Choose "File PSF" and enter the name of the FITS file
       containing the PSF (including extension). The PSF must be in
       the same pixel scale as the original data, and should be
       centred.
       
       If the PSF is in a different directory from the code, use the
       full path to the file.
       
       Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.

   Loading/Calculating the PSF only needs to be done once; further
   plots will use the same PSF.


To Display Polarization Vectors
--------------------------------

   Select "Show Polarization Vectors" to display an overlay of the
   polarization vectors for the model. To customize the view, see the
   following section.

To Customize the Image
----------------------

   The image, contours and polarization vectors can be customized in
   the "Image Options" tab.

   To use a logarithmic scale for the image

      Select "Logarithmic Image Scale" 
      
      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
      
   To change the upper and lower limits of the image scale
   
      Slide the "Lower Limit" and "Upper Limit" bars to adjust the image scale. 

      The units are percentile - ie, 99% will ignore values outside
      the 99th percentile for the upper limit, 5% will ignore values
      below the 5th percentile.  The plot will automatically update as
      you slide the bars.
   
   To change the colour map of the image
   
      Click "Change Colour Map" 
      
      Click "Show Colours" on the popup if you want to view images of
      the available colour maps.
      
      Select your colour map.
      
      Click "Done"
      
      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window. 
   
   To  mask the centre of the image
   
      Change the Entry box for "Mask Size" to the size of the mask in
      model pixels.

      Click The "Plot/Refresh Plot" Button At The Bottom Of The
      Window.

      A mask size of 0 will have no mask. 
   
   
To Change the Polarization Vectors
----------------------------------

   To use fewer vectors

     Change "Vector Resampling" to an integer larger than 1. A
     value of 2, for example, will plot every second vector (the
     vectors are re-sampled, not averaged, to avoid smoothing out
     structure).

     Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.

     Note that if the image has been convolved with the PSF, the
     polarization vectors will be calculated from the convolved
     data.
   
   To make the vectors longer or shorter
   
      Change the "Length Scale" entry to a value less than 1 (shorter)
      or greater than 1(longer). This will scale the length and width
      of the vectors.

      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
   
   To Change the Colour of the Polarization Vectors
   
      Enter an appropriate colour in the "Vector Colour" box.

      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
   
Customizing the Contours
------------------------

   To change the contour colours
   
      Enter the colour name under the Conbtour Options section. This
      works with or without the "Custom Contours" option chosen.

      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
   
   To generate custom contours
   
      Click "Data Statistics" to view a histogram of the data, (this
      will help select physically reasonable values).

      Enter the number of contours, the lower limit of the contours,
      and the upper limit of the contours in the "Contour Options"
      Section.
   
      Click "Generate".  A list of contours will be displayed in the
      "Levels" entry box.
   
      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
   
   To enter your own arbitrary contours 

      Enter your contour values in the "Levels" Entry box, in
      ascending order, separated by commas (i.e.  0,1.0,2.5,5.0).

      Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.
   
   To use logarithmic contours
   
      Selecting "Logarithmic Contours" and refreshing the plot will
      automatically generate logarithmic contours.
   
      Selecting "Logarithmic Contours" and using the "Generate"
      method, as above, will generate custom logarithmic
      contours. Negative values for the data minimum are acceptable.


Plotting Profiles
----------------

If "Radial Profile (I)" or "Radial Profile (PI)" has been chosen for
the viewing mode, the viewer will plot a radial profile calculated
along the X or Y axis for either the total intensity, or the polarized
intensity.  The data can be averaged along a strip X pixels wide
(model pixels), or along a wedge of constant angle X degrees wide. The
contour data, if displayed, will be averaged in the same way.


   Select "Radial Profile (I)" or "Radial Profile (PI)" from the drop
   down menu.

   Select the "Profile Options" Tab.

   Choose the axis you want to plot, as below

		
   	      +Y
               |
               |
               |
               |
               |
  -X --------- o --------- +X
               |
               |
               |
               |
               |
	      -Y


   Choose Wedge (by angle) or Slice (by pixel) for the profile type,
   and set the width of the strip (in model units, for pixels).

   Select the plotting symbols for the model and the data.

   Enter colours for the model and the data. 

   Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.

Customizing the Profile
-----------------------

   You can choose a logarithmic plotting scale for the X or Y axis in the plot. 

   You can scale the data by an arbitrary value by entering a value in
   the "Scale Data by" entry box and refreshing the plot.


Plotting Density Distributions
------------------------------

You can display a profile of the underlying density distribution, in r
vs z coordinates.


   Select the "Density Distribution" option from the drop down menu.

   Click "Plot/Refresh Plot" at the bottom of the window.

Saving Images and Making Lots of Plots
-------------------------------------


You can save individual image to a file from the image menu with the
format determined by the file name extension. In addition, you can
plot multiple images in a single plot, and make plots for all the
models in a run.


Snapshot View
--------------

The "Snapshot View" generates a grid of images in two parameters for a
quick view of a region of parameter space.  (e.g. plotting the angle
from 12.9 to 49.4 on one axis, and beta from 1.0 to 1.5 on the other)

   Set up the image options the way you want it to appear: the type of
   image, image and contour options, colours, etc, as described in the
   above sections.
   
   Select the "Snapshot View" tab.  
   
   Choose two variables by selecting one button in the first column,
   and one in the second.
   
   Move the sliders for these two variables to choose the upper and
   lower limits.
   
   Upper = Lower will produce a single image in that axis.  Upper <
   Lower will display the images in reverse order.
   
   Click "Make Figs". This may take a moment, particularly for many
   complex images.
   
   Save using the menu in the image window.


Generating All Images
---------------------

This option generates a single graphics file (jpg) for each model in
the selected viewing mode. Images will have the same file name as the
data files, with an extension for the angle and images mode, and will
be saved in the data directory. If there is data loaded, it will also
create an image file of the data named "data.jpg".

This can be a lot of images - one for each model, times 11 for the
different angles, and can take a few minutes to generate.

   Set up the image options the way you want it to appear: the type of
   image, image and contour options, colours, and so on.

   Click "Save All Figs"

   Wait a while. 


Saving Files

Clicking "Save Current File" will save the current model and viewing
angle as a FITS file, with five extensions; one each for I, Q, U, V
and PI.

In the Profile View mode, selecting "Profile Options" and clicking
"Save Current Profile" will save the currently extracted profile to a
text file.


